GRANDMOTHER GOING GONE by Andrew Slattery This, the first year the sagebrush hasn't bloomed. She sits on her porch, still waiting for suitors. Mint and basil in the pot opposite the pot of marigolds which the rabbits do not eat. Our bones are soft and yellow. Upon a time there was a once. The twentieth century put a rift through your brain. The two deck chairs warm themselves above the squash blossoms' slow machismo and the watertank is three storms full. Take anything, whatever is transfiguring, refined, foolish; take the thing, effaced from a man’s soul what his ancestors have most constantly done. Hearing-aides sit behind her like commas. Your arms bruised like a forceps baby, and the little mountains at the back of your head. She coughs like balloons past. Some of us are losing a leg to diabetes. Some don't know what they went downstairs for. There are two skies but one hawk. We are uncertain, like in the brouhaha of waves that only my fellow Pythagoreans could decipherThe consequences seize us by the throat, indifferent to the fact that we have meanwhile reformed. Talk much of yourself and so conceal of yourself. She sips at her coffee, as she does every morning, watching the light walk down the hill. Behind her, a dead tree is fruiting with cockatoos. We bear our workhorse backs. We bear the sea's wretched age. Let the low orange moon and its rabbits come to mean mortality. You keep old roads open by driving on the new ones. If there's a Hell, little is made of it. I keep meaning to study up and find out what it is we have inside us. It seems there is a lot to forget and a lot not to do. And by that oldest instinct of subjection which breaks forth in her. The vanity of others—counter to our taste when counter to our vanity. Stars are built on plates. I keep forgetting this isn't my world. Tell me how it's been a strange world. That I could lean against the bookcase and a secret panel open up. The books said “get what you can, try to keep that, and add to it if possible,” and they searched hard for the word to convey that what is gone is gone forever. It began with an amoeba, singing against the fear of separation, an act of volition, a love of what time is gently not doing. a superb meditation, a tracking of the mind at a difficult moment in life. The language is fresh and the fractured grammar enacts the grief and the emotional disturbance so that the reader can feel the wrangling emotions. The imaginative reach of the poem is exemplary. The poem has been written with insight and integrity of feeling.